---
title: A. Setting up XtractQuery
layout: default
grand_parent: Modding Guides
parent: Script Editing
---

# Setting up XtractQuery
**original guide by @z_u_ra on discord**



Step 1. 

Get XtractQuery from [here](https://github.com/onepiecefreak3/XtractQuery/releases/latest).

Step 2. 

**Now we will set up XQ references**, which are essentially hints that let us know what a function does. to do that, extract the entire `seq` folder of the game you are modding, and put it in a folder next to the executable called `reference`.

Step 3. 

**THIS STEP CAN BE A LITTLE CONFUSING, WATCH [THIS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=30hn6VrURUs) VIDEO FOR A VISUAL EXPLANATION. CONTINUE READING IF U WANT THE TEXT GUIDE.**

**Installing XtractQuery to PATH**: Copy the path to your XtractQuery installation directory, which should have the XtractQuery executable and the reference folder. then, in your Windows search, look up "edit the system environment variables". open it, and click "Environment variables..." in the bottom right corner. Now, in the `User variables for [USER}` viewport, select the `Path` variable and click edit. Now click `New`, and paste the path to your XtractQuery installation directory. Click OK, then OK again, and exit the environment variables window. Now XtractQuery is fully installed. 

Step 4.

**How to use XtractQuery:**

Decompiling a XQ - to decompile any XQ, open Powershell or Command prompt in the folder with the XQ you wanna decompile and write: `XtractQuery -o e -f [filename.xq]`

Compiling a XQ -  to compile any XQ, open Powershell or Command prompt in the folder with the XQ you wanna compile and write: `XtractQuery -o c -t xq32 -f [filename.xq.txt]`

There you go! Now you know how to set up the decompiler and and decompile and compile any XQ!