---
title: B. Basic XQ syntax
layout: default
grand_parent: Modding Guides
parent: Script Editing
---

# Basic XQ syntax
**original guide by @z_u_ra on discord**


This section of the guide assumes that you have basic programming knowledge with a language like Python or C-Sharp. If you don't have any programming experience,  I recommend [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fWjsdhR3z3c) video.

# Declaring variables
in XQ, variables don't have normal names like in other programming languages. to distinguish your variable from other variables, you need to call your variable `$local` and then a number. It's good practice to always go up with the numbers. for example, if you see that the variable with the biggest number in the current function is `$local10`, don't make something like `$local88` because you feel quirky, do `$local11`. Not following this convention could lead to unexpected behavior. There are other types of variables other than `local`, I'll go over them in a bit.

# Declaring functions
XQ function declarations are similar to languages like C# or C++, but XQ is dynamically written, so it's a little bit different.
for example, in C#, if I want to declare a function that returns a string, I would do
```cs
string foo() {
   return "bar";
}
```
but in XQ, functions can return any type and you don't need to specify types, so it would look like this:
```php
foo() {
  return "bar";
}
```
like other C-like languages, statements in XQ have to end with a semicolon.
When declaring a function in XQ, parameters don't have names, like local variables, they are simply called `$param[number]`. for example, this is how a function greeting the user would look like in C#:
```cs
string greet(string name) {
  string result = "Hello, " + name;
  return result;
}
```
in XQ, it would look like this:
```php
greet($param0) {
  $local1 = format("Hello, %s!", $param0);
  return $local1;
}
```

# Instructions
I would write a guide on this, but the creator of XtractQuery, onepiecefreak, has already done a fantastic job on that, so please read [this](https://github.com/onepiecefreak3/XtractQuery/blob/master/ScriptSpecification.md#instructions) to understand all the base instructions in XQ, This is super important.

# Comments
You can define single line comments with `//` and multiline comments with `/* comment */`
# Conditional statements
In XQ, you can't do do `if` blocks like in C#, you need to use a conditional goto, furthermore, in XQ, bool literals are not allowed. so you have to prepare the conditional beforehand for example, if in C# it would be like this:
```c#
string name = "john";
if(name == "john") {
  Console.WriteLine("hey john");
} else {
  Environment.Exit(1);
}
```
in XQ it would look like this:
```php
$local1 = "john";
$local2 = $local1 == "john";
if $local2 goto "johnYes"h;
return; // Essentially acts as an `else` statement because if the previous condition was true it would already jump to "johnYes".
"johnYes"h:
  $local1 = log("hey john");
```
# Hash values
Unsigned integers or hex values have to end with `h`, as well as label literals. Hash values can also start with `0x` and have hex codes instead of decimal values.
# Stuff worth noting.
In XQs, even though some functions return void, every instruction has to be binded to a variable. You can't just do `PlayMovie()`, you need to do `$local1 = PlayMovie();`, for example.
This is only the tip of the iceberg; please visit the script specification on the XtractQuery github for more in-depth info about the syntax.

## if you have any questions, please ping me, I am free almost all the time and I love answering questions.