---
title: Creating Official IDs
layout: default
parent: Modding Guides
---

# Creating Official IDs
Yo-kai Watch uses many IDs, from Item IDs (i.e. `0xC8142475`) to  Map IDs to Shop IDs - almost everything has an ID!
These are generated via the algorithm known as CRC-32 (specifically ISO 3309/ISO-HDLC) which can be generated by typing text into a tool like [this](https://emn178.github.io/online-tools/crc/).
Have you ever wondered what pattern Yo-kai Watch games use? Do they just use any random CRC-32? No, there are actual patterns although the game dosent check for them (meaning you dont *need to follow this ever*) - this is a list of the patterns for common IDs:

## Item IDs
This is the most complicated one. ItemIDs are the CRC-32 of the following sequence:
> `<type><ItemNum>`

The `<type>` can be found in the `cfg.bin` although the placing is unknown, here is the list of `<type>`s:
* `ifd` for *food* consumables.
* `itl` for Talismans, Exporbs, Staminums, Books etc aka all non-food consumables
* `ilv` for Critters aka Insects & Fish.
* `ieq` for Equipment.
* `soul` for Souls.
* `iky` for Key items.

The `<ItemNum>` can be found in the `cfg.bin` using the latest `MyTags.txt`.

## Base IDs
### YW1
For Yo-kai Watch 1, it's the CRC-32 of last 4 characters of the file name i.e. `y333`.
### YW2+
For Yo-kai Watch 2 and later, it's the CRC-32 of the *whole file name* i.e. `y137000`.

## Param IDs
ParamIDs are the exact same as BaseIDs but with a `para_` added at the start (the missing m is intentional!).

# EffectIDs
[lorem ipsum]
## Map IDs, VisualEffectIDs and others
Other IDs, (such as Map IDs!) are simply the CRC-32 of the *file name*. i.e. the CRC-32 of "`t101g00`" would be the Map ID for that map.
